Forum:		Cleanup
Issue:		DEFINE-DECLARATION-RETURN-VALUE
References:	DEFINE-DECLARATION (issue SYNTACTIC-ENVIRONMENT-ACCESS)
Category:	CHANGE
Edit History:   V1, 29 Oct 1989, Sandra Loosemore


Problem Description:

The specification of the return values from handlers defined with
DEFINE-DECLARATION (added to the language at the June 89 meeting) only
permits a declaration to apply either to variable bindings, to
function bindings, or to neither.  The first return value from the
handler function indicates which of these cases it is, and the second
return value is a list containing information about the declaration.

The DYNAMIC-EXTENT declaration cannot be handled with this mechanism
since it can apply to both variable and function bindings.  It seems
reasonable for both users and implementations to define other kinds of
declarations that use a similar syntax, and DEFINE-DECLARATION ought
to be able to handle these cases.


Proposal (DEFINE-DECLARATION-RETURN-VALUE:THREE-VALUES):

Change the specification of DEFINE-DECLARATION to require handler
functions to return three values.

The first value is a list which corresponds to information about
variable bindings specified by the declaration.  The format of this
list is the same as is now required to be returned as the second value
of DEFINE-DECLARATION when the first value is :VARIABLE; that is, a
list of (binding-name key value) lists.

The second value is a list which corresponds to information about
function bindings specified by the declaration.  The format of this
list is the same as is now required to be returned as the second value
of DEFINE-DECLARATION when the first value is :FUNCTION; that is, a
list of (binding-name key value) lists.

The third value is a list which corresponds to information about
declarations that do not apply to either variable or function
bindings.  The format of this list is the same as is now required to
be returned as the second value of DEFINE-DECLARATION when the first
value is :DECLARE; that is, a list whose CAR is a key (used by the
function DECLARATION-INFORMATION) and whose CDR is the associated
return value.


Rationale:

This proposal fixes a deficiency in the original specification of 
DEFINE-DECLARATION, while minimizing the change to the format of the
information that is returned.


Current Practice:

Has anybody even implemented DEFINE-DECLARATION (as originally
specified in issue SYNTACTIC-ENVIRONMENT-ACCESS) yet?


Cost to implementors:

Probably minor.


Cost to users:

Probably minor.


Benefits:

DEFINE-DECLARATION is made more powerful.


Discussion:

